After controversy meant the Golden Globes didn’t air on TV and a huge delay to the Grammys because of the pandemic, it’s fair to say that awards season has been off to a shaky start. So we’re relieved that it’s almost time for the Oscars – undeniably the biggest night in the entertainment calendar. Based on the last few years alone, it’s pretty much guaranteed that we’re in for a few memorable moments, whether that’s someone making a splash with their acceptance speech, turning heads on the red carpet or going a bit rogue when the spotlight is on them. With more than 90 years to go through, we’ve raided the Oscars vaults for some of our favourite moments from past Academy Awards, starting with an obvious stand-out... During the live broadcast in 2014, HuffPost fave John Travolta was recruited to welcome Frozen star Idina Menzel to the stage, so she could perform Let It Go. Unfortunately, due to John’s apparent struggles reading from an autocue, he instead introduced “the wickedly talented, one and only Adele Dazeem” – a moment he’s still struggling to live down almost a decade later. In a moment that saw the whole world holding its breath in unison, Jennifer Lawrence took a tumble as she went to accept her Best Actress prize, for her performance in Silver Linings Playbook. After getting a standing ovation, she joked: “You guys are just standing up ’cos you feel bad that I fell, which is embarrassing, but thank you.”  A year later, Jennifer returned to the Oscars, where she was nominated again, this time for her role in American Hustle. While she didn’t pull off the Oscars double, she did pull off the falling-over-at-the-Oscars double, which... is still something. “You like me, you really, really like me,” is an oft-quoted awards show line, but as it turns out, that’s not actually what Sally Field said. “I want to say thank you to you,” she told the audience at the 1985 Oscars, “I haven’t had an orthodox career, and I’ve wanted more than anything to have your respect. “The first time [she won an Oscar], I didn’t feel it. But this time I feel it. And I can’t deny the fact that you like me! Right now! You like me!” What’s also often overlooked is the fact she did actually make the crowd laugh along with her speech, even if audiences at home were seemingly less impressed. After appearing in around 20 films, Gwyneth finally picked up an Oscar in 1999, for her performance in Shakespeare In Love, and struggled to get her words out through her tears. Interestingly, this would prove to be Gwyneth’s only Academy Award nomination (so far!), but at least she managed to get the Oscar on her first try. It’s fair to say Olivia Colman had not been expecting to beat her peers in the Best Actress category that year, judging from that acceptance speech. The 1989 Academy Awards went down in the history books for cooking up a chaotic opening number that felt like a bit of a fever dream. The performance saw Rob Lowe duetting with Snow White, as well as featuring appearances from the likes of Lily Tomlin and Vincent Price. Without a host, the routine served in place of an opening monologue, but it went down so badly it would be a full 30 years before the Oscars would go ahead without a host. Fortunately, things went a lot more smoothly in 2019, with producers even choosing to forego a host again the following two years. After Miss Piggy warmed up the crowd (seriously, what an intro), there wasn’t a dry eye in the house when Kermit The Frog performed The Rainbow Connection in 1980. The Muppet Movie’s opening number had been nominated for Best Original Song, but lost out to It Goes Like It Goes from Norma Rae, a decision which was rubbished by many critics at the time. Eventually, Kermit and co finally won an Oscar, although it took more than 40 years, when Man Or Muppet scooped Best Original Song in 2011. It was the performance the world had been waiting for when Bradley Cooper and Lady Gaga finally sang Shallow from the A Star Is Born soundtrack together. The pair had actually only performed the track live together once prior to the Oscars (when Bradley was a surprise guest at one of Gaga’s Las Vegas shows), but you wouldn’t know that from the sheer chemistry between the two of them while they sang to one another.  Back in 2000, Angelina won her first Oscar for her role in the film adaptation of Girl, Interrupted. Her win was somewhat overshadowed by her red carpet appearance with brother James Haven that night, who she kissed on the lips and declared she was “so in love with”. Years later, she admitted she was “disappointed” with the “circus” that surrounded the incident, explaining that she and James had always relied on one another as the children of divorced parents. Yeah, Seacrest really wasn’t loving this, was he? Gone With The Wind star Hattie McDaniel’s Best Supporting Actress win at the 12th Academy Awards was a particularly important one, as she became the first African American to take home an Oscar for her role as Mammy. While this is often referred to as a progressive moment in Oscars history, it should be noted that Hattie’s win came at a time when segregation was still in place. This meant she was not able to sit with her Gone With The Wind co-stars during the ceremony, with film producer David O. Selznick having to call in a favour for her to be allowed to attend at all. Precious actor Mo’nique paid homage to Hattie McDaniel when she picked up the same award 70 years later, sporting a similar ensemble to the Gone With The Wind star. “This moment is so much bigger than me,” Halle Berry began in her acceptance speech, before listing off the names of the Black women in the acting industry who had come before her, including Dorothy Dandridge, Lena Horne, Diahann Carroll, as well as her peers, Jada Pinkett, Angela Bassett and Vivica Fox. She said she hoped her win might represent “a chance” for “every nameless, faceless woman of colour”. Sadly, Halle remains the only woman of colour to have been named Best Actress, lamenting 15 years later that she felt the win “meant nothing”, as so little had changed in the time that followed. Halle’s victory came 39 years after Sidney Poitier became the first Black winner in the Best Actor category. His future successors have included Forest Whitaker, Jamie Foxx and Denzel Washington. Kathryn’s efforts at the helm of The Hurt Locker, which also landed Best Picture that year, made her the only woman to have won in the Best Director category. In the years that have followed, only three women – Greta Gerwig, Chloé Zhao and Emerald Fennell – have been nominated in this category, two of whom earned the recognition in 2021. That year, Chloé became the second woman, and first woman of colour, to accept the accolade. Marlon Brando’s win for The Godfather was, without doubt, a Big Deal, so when he refused to show up to collect his award, it raised a lot of eyebrows. Instead, Brando had Native American performer Sacheen Littlefeather collect the award on his behalf, explaining that he wasn’t present in protest of Hollywood’s portrayal of Native Americans on the big screen. Well, she was never going to pass by unnoticed, was she? Björk was nominated for her first Oscar in 2001, for her contribution to the Dancer In The Dark soundtrack, and made headlines for her swan-inspired dress, which included dropping eggs along the red carpet. We love when a star really knows how to turn heads, and that’s exactly what Pose actor Billy Porter did on the red carpet in 2019. On the subject of his much-discussed tuxedo dress, Billy told Vogue that year: “We wanted to play between the masculine and the feminine. This look was interesting because it’s not drag. I’m not a drag queen, I’m a man in a dress. “My aunt Dorothy used to always say, ‘Dress for the job you want, not the job you have.’ That’s why I look good every time I leave the house. I want to run shit. From this [Oscars] moment, I want people to understand that you don’t have to understand or even agree with other people’s authenticity or truths, but we must all respect each other. “People are going to be really uncomfortable with my Black ass in a ball gown—but it’s not anybody’s business but mine.” In hindsight, the reaction to Angelina Jolie’s so-called “leg-bomb” might have been a little OTT. Back in 2012, though, her errant right leg really felt like a moment, inspiring countless memes in those halcyon early days of Twitter. There’s Angelina again, this time in a huge selfie with a star-studded cast including Meryl Streep, Lupita Nyong’o, Bradley Cooper and Jared Leto (and yes, sadly that is Kevin Spacey slap-bang in the middle). The photo – shared on host Ellen Degeneres’ Twitter page – quickly broke records as the most retweeted image in the site’s history, beating an image previously shared by then-President Barack Obama. Remember, even the word “selfie” was quite a new thing back in 2014, let alone the act of taking a group shot like this, so while the furore around this photo might seem a bit silly even just a few years later, we promise it actually was a big deal at the time. In 2001, this unexpected shocker was voted the “most memorable” moment in Oscars history. We’re particularly fond of host David Niven’s quick-thinking response, as he declared: “The only laugh that man will ever get in his life is by stripping off and showing his shortcomings.” British singer-songwriter Sam Smith made a huge blunder during their Academy Awards acceptance speech, wrongly describing themself as the “first openly gay man to win an Oscar” (they came out as non-binary a few years later). Sam’s comments sparked a huge backlash, particularly from members of the LGBTQ community, including past Oscar-winning screenwriter Dustin Lance Black. Many at the time called for the star to learn their LGBTQ history before speaking out on such a public platform, and to Sam’s credit, they’ve since proved to have done their homework on queer history. Many picked up on the fact that when presenting Casey Affleck with his Oscar in 2017, Brie Larson did not applaud for the actor, which many took as a response to the accusations of workplace sexual harassment that he’d faced years earlier. She later told Vanity Fair: “I think that whatever it was that I did onstage kind of spoke for itself. I’ve said all that I have to say on that topic.” Spoiler alert: It wasn’t La La Land. Want to watch the Oscars live? Sky is screening the event on its Sky Cinema Oscars channel or you can sign up for a seven-day free trial for a Sky Cinema pass from NOW. HuffPost may receive a share from purchases made via links on this page. Prices and availability subject to change.